customize: how to change colors (#17)
inveniosoftware/docs-invenio-rdm: docs/develop/customize.md

Go to the browser [*https://localhost:5000/*](https://localhost:5000) or refresh the page. And voilà! The logo has been changed!

> **WARNING**: If you do not see it changing, check in an incognito window, the browser might have cached the logo.

Reviewer: self note: there is no need to migrate this to ademonition, it has been done in the other PR waiting for merge.

## Change colors

> Another common request that you might have is: *How do I change the colors so I can make my instance look like my institution's theme?*. We show what changes you need to do in order to achieve that.

Reviewer: Ultra-Minor (phrasing):

```suggestion
You might also been wondering: *How do I change the colors so I can make my instance look like my institution's theme?*. We show what changes you need to do in order to achieve that.
```

Reviewer 2: :neckbeard: If going for Pablo's suggestion, edit first few words to "You might also **be** wondering [...]"

We are going to change the top header section in the frontpage to apply our custom background color. Open the `assets/scss/<your instance shortname>/variables.scss` file and edit it as below:

``` console
$navbar_background_image: unset;

> $navbar_background_color: #myColorCode;

Reviewer: Minor: I would put an example, experience thought us when you put text or similar user might think that variable is somewhere to be set.
```suggestion
$navbar_background_color: #FFFFFF;  // Note this hex value is an example. Choose yours.
```

```

> Then, use the `update` command as above and refresh the page! You should be able to see your top header's color changed! You can find all the available variables that you can change [here](https://github.com/inveniosoftware/invenio-app-rdm/blob/master/invenio_app_rdm/theme/assets/scss/invenio_app_rdm/variables.scss).

Reviewer: Doubt: Does it require stop-start of the instance? I would specify the command is from `invenio-cli`

Author: It doesn't require restart if you are in `local` mode. As long as, `FLASK_ENV=development` is there :) I am not sure about the `containerize` though, maybe @fenekku can elaborate more on this!

Reviewer 2: For containerize, any change requires a re-run of `containerize`. 

The above is the right way to go for me: only mention running `update` because that's the flow we want developers to use. Perhaps, `invenio-cli update --no-install-js` to be more explicit.

Go to the browser [*https://localhost:5000/*](https://localhost:5000) or refresh the page. And voilà! The logo has been changed!

**WARNING**: If you do not see it changing, check in an incognito window, the browser might have cached the logo.

## Change colors

> You might also been wondering: *How do I change the colors so I can make my instance look like my institution's theme?*. We show what changes you need to do in order to achieve that.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You might also be wondering: *How do I change the colors so I can make my instance look like my institution's theme?*. We show what changes you need to do in order to achieve that.
```

We are going to change the top header section in the frontpage to apply our custom background color. Open the `assets/scss/<your instance shortname>/variables.scss` file and edit it as below:

``` console
$navbar_background_image: unset;
$navbar_background_color: #000000; // Note this hex value is an example. Choose yours.
```

> Then, run the `invenio-cli update --no-install-js` command as above and refresh the page! You should be able to see your top header's color changed! You can find all the available variables that you can change [here](https://github.com/inveniosoftware/invenio-app-rdm/blob/master/invenio_app_rdm/theme/assets/scss/invenio_app_rdm/variables.scss).

Reviewer 2: :100:

> ## Change search result

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Change search results
```

> Changing how your results are presented in the search page is also something quite common. We show how you can do that.

Reviewer 2: I think we will have to tone down on the "we show how to do it" :sweat_smile: . The pattern is obvious by now:

```suggestion
Changing how your results are presented in the search page is also something quite common.
```

Reviewer: Yeah, I agree. From friendly to bossy is a thin line heh

> We are going to update the search result template so we can show more text in the result's description. Create a file called `ResultsItemTemplate.jsx` and then edit it as below:

Reviewer 2: Where do we create that file?

Reviewer: Can specify what changed. e.g. on the "more text" specify that i goes from 200 to 400 or so.

Author: Nice catch :)

```console
import React from 'react';
import {Item} from 'semantic-ui-react';
import _truncate from 'lodash/truncate';

export function ResultsItemTemplate(record, index) {
  return (
    <Item key={index} href={`/records/${record.id}`}>
      <Item.Content>
        <Item.Header>{record.metadata.titles[0].title}</Item.Header>
        <Item.Description>
          {_truncate(record.metadata.descriptions[0].description, { length: 400 })}
        </Item.Description>
      </Item.Content>
    </Item>
  )
};
```

> Then, run the `invenio-cli update --no-install-js` command as above and refresh the page! You should be able to see more text in each result's description! You can find all the available templates [here](https://github.com/inveniosoftware/invenio-app-rdm/tree/master/invenio_app_rdm/theme/assets/templates/search).

Reviewer: doubt: `--no-install-js` is just for installing external, not building right, otherwise it is needed.

Author: By default it doesn't install, I just kept it for pointing out that there is this option. But I can omit it :)

Reviewer 2: `--no-install-js` is just to skip installing the external npm packages. Here installing JS packages is not needed; updating the statics is the only thing needed.

    If you do not see it changing, check in an incognito window; the browser might have cached the logo.

Need further customizations? Have you thought of creating your own extensions? How to add them to your InvenioRDM instance is explained in the next section - [here](../extensions/custom.md).

## Change colors

> You might also be wondering: *How do I change the colors so I can make my instance look like my institution's theme?*.

Reviewer: no .

## Change search results

Changing how your results are presented in the search page is also something quite common.

We are going to update the search result template so we can show more text in the result's description. Create a file called `ResultsItemTemplate.jsx` inside `assets/templates/search` folder and then edit it as below:

```console
import React from 'react';
import {Item} from 'semantic-ui-react';
import _truncate from 'lodash/truncate';

export function ResultsItemTemplate(record, index) {
  return (
    <Item key={index} href={`/records/${record.id}`}>
      <Item.Content>
        <Item.Header>{record.metadata.titles[0].title}</Item.Header>
        <Item.Description>
          {_truncate(record.metadata.descriptions[0].description, { length: 400 })}
        </Item.Description>
      </Item.Content>
    </Item>
  )
};
```

Then, run the `invenio-cli update` command as above and refresh the page! You should be able to see more text in each result's description! You can find all the available templates [here](https://github.com/inveniosoftware/invenio-app-rdm/tree/master/invenio_app_rdm/theme/assets/templates/search).

## Change the record landing page

> When you click on a search result, you navigate in the details page of a specific record. We show how you can change the way the information is displayed in the details page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you click on a search result, you navigate in the details page of a specific record. This section shows how to change the way the information is displayed in the details page.
```

```

Then, run the `invenio-cli update --no-install-js` command as above and refresh the page! You should be able to see more text in each result's description! You can find all the available templates [here](https://github.com/inveniosoftware/invenio-app-rdm/tree/master/invenio_app_rdm/theme/assets/templates/search).

## Change the record landing page

> When you click on a search result, you navigate in the details page of a specific record. We show how you can change the way the information is displayed in the details page.

Reviewer: Moderate: On @fenekku comment above "We show you" --> We are going to change...? Like friendly, we do it all together but less bossy heh
